Title: Flashcards study tips {{header.mdi}} <!-- -*- my-source-command: "./run-mmd -D %s" -*- -->

<div markdown=1 id="page-wrap"> <!-- run-mmd inserts the closing tag at the bottom -->

## Printing flashcards

Ideally these should be printed on *card stock* paper, duplex (meaning
two-sided), and cut out using a paper cutter. I print them at my local
print shop, Sukam Copy, at University and 7th, for $0.25/page. This
translates to $5 per 100 words. They also have a paper cutter which
you can use for free (but it is dull!). If you own a good duplex
printer then you can buy your own card stock and print the cards at
home for cheaper. If you don't have card stock, you can use colored
paper, which will help to hide what's on the other side of the card.
There is also the option of printing the cards single-sided and then
gluing alternate sheets back-to-back.

## How to study with flashcards

Generally I learn words Arabic to English first, a few at a time. This
can be done by taking a few cards out of the deck and learning them
separately (like with Mr. Becker's "splits" in eyeVocab). Or you can
hold the full deck and insert each card just below the top until
you've learned it. As I go through the cards in this way, I try to
guess how long I'll be able to remember each word, and I insert it at
a corresponding depth in the deck: harder words go close to the top,
easier words go further down. When I feel I have mastered a word I put
it at the bottom.

Eventually I can go through the deck in one pass and guess all the
English words correctly. At that point I turn the deck over and learn
the Arabic for each English word, which is harder. First it's a matter
of getting the sound approximately right, then the spelling - which of
the vowels are long, which consonants are emphatic, etc. Sometimes I
pull the top card and try to write the Arabic on a piece of paper,
then I turn it over to see if I made any errors. Sometimes I just try
to visualize the spelling, which is faster than writing the word out,
but difficult for long words. I use a system similar to the one
suggested in the Mastering Arabic textbook: if I pick up a card one
day and get it right the first time, I put it in one of several "easy"
stacks, which I eventually throw away.

Sometimes I use silly mnemonics to remember an Arabic word - if "big"
is "kabīr" كَبير then I could think of a beer or a bear or something
big. But I find that it is generally preferable to look up the word (I
use [Wiktionary](https://en.wiktionary.org)) and get the [definition
and
etymology](https://en.wiktionary.org/wiki/%D9%83%D8%A8%D9%8A%D8%B1),
then we see that "kabīr" shares the same
[root](https://en.wiktionary.org/wiki/%D9%83_%D8%A8_%D8%B1#Arabic) as
["ʾakbar"
أَكْبَر](https://en.wiktionary.org/wiki/%D8%A3%D9%83%D8%A8%D8%B1#Arabic)
meaning "greater" or "greatest", a word that I already know from
exposure to Islam. After doing this I use the word in sentences - not
necessarily Arabic sentences, just as long as I'm using the Arabic for
the word I'm trying to learn: "that's a كَبير tree", etc.

